SCIM
====

There are six basic ways in which people die, and three sets of
essential services which protect them.

Shelter protects from:
  1. Too Hot
  2. Too Cold

Supply protects from:
  3. Hunger
  4. Thirst

Safety protects from:
  5. Illness
  6. Injury

Shelter
-------

Shelter refers not just to the home, but to the essential services
like power, cooling, heating and so on that make it habitable year
round.

Supply
------

We all need regular food and water to stay alive.

Safety
------

Protection from illness and injury is provided by health care,
public health, hospitals, sanitation infrastructure, police,
security services and the military.


Layers of Infrastructure
------------------------

1. Individual
2. Household
3. Neighborhood
4. Municipality / Town / City
5. Region
6. Country
7. International

For purposes of this document, layers of infrastructure above the
Household will not be discussed.  They are assumed to exist.


Four tiers of cooperation
--------------------------

1. Individuals
2. Groups
3. Organizations
4. Nation States

Individuals, groups, organizations and nation states are the four
tiers of cooperation possible when individuals work together. Each
tier requires its own infrastructure plus the infrastructure of the
tiers of cooperation it rests upon.

Individuals make up groups using infrastructure to enable connection
and cohesion.

Individuals in groups sharing common purposes form organizations
which require social infrastructure to maintain their effectiveness.

Individuals, working together in organizations and groups, form the
nation state which requires infrastructure to provide services for
the benefit of individual citizens.

For the rest of this document, the Nation State will be assumed to
exist and won't be further discussed.


SCIM: Group
-----------

A group is any collection of people. It could be as few as two.
Typical groups include families, fellow travelers on a bus or a
plane, or any social group.

The basic requirements for a group to exist are fairly similar.  Most
groups require communications, transport, and space. They use
infrastructure like offices, cell phones and car pools.  Internal
systems keep resources available where they are needed.

1. Communications
   A group has to be able to exchange messages (voice, phones, mail,
   SMS) or it cannot act together.
2. Space
   Most groups need places to physically gather, like a home for a
   family or a local cafe for a set of friends.
3. Transportation
   Groups that do not simply stay in one place need to have members be
   able to leave and return.  Walking counts.
4. Resource Control
   Shared resources are used in a way that supports the group.
5. Additional Needs
   Any needs other than critical infrastructure that supports this
   group.


SCIM: Organization
------------------

An organization is a special kind of group with a purpose beyond the
combined purposes of the members. Hospitals, police forces, fire
brigades, armies and schools are all examples of organizations.

An effective organization has all the needs of a group, plus three
necessary pieces of "social	shared infrastructure." These give an
plan organization the coordination and unity of purpose that it
needs. Social infrastructure is often as essential to an
organization's success as physical infrastructure.

Organizations often require specialized accommodation and equipment
to fulfill their purpose. These additional infrastructure needs must
also be mapped.

1. Shared Map
   The people in an organization must share a map of reality - their
   aims, responsibilities, environment of operation and so on. Some
   fraying is acceptable, but not much.
2. Shared Plan
   From the shared map comes a shared plan, subject to the diffusion of
   power and responsibility within the organization.
3. Shared Succession Model
   Most importantly, if the current leadership of an organization is
   not performing, there must be a shared model of how to select new
   leaders.  This can be critical in times of urgent crisis.
